(plain bundle usage) Documentation on how to add a plain bundle image to a file-based catalog (#1127)
operator-framework/operator-registry: docs/design/bundle-sources.md

# Building a file-based catalog from a plain bundle image

> **IMPORTANT:** Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) v1 features and components are still experimental. Early adopters and contributors should expect breaking changes. The following procedures are not recommended for use on production clusters.

Reviewer: Nit: This might be a good place to add a Github markdown warning.

Could look something like:
> **Warning**: some warning text here ...

> You can build a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes manifests in the YAML format, or *plain bundle*, and add the image to a file-based catalog (FBC). The experimental `olm.bundle.mediatype` property of the `olm.bundle` schema object differentiates a plain bundle from a regular bundle. You must set the bundle media type property to `plain+v0` to specify a plain bundle.

Reviewer 2: We were planning on making a follow up issue to go into the difference between a plain bundle and regular bundle. Also, I think it would be nice to include reasons why you would choose to use a plain bundle.

Do you think it is important to add that now or would a follow issue be alright?

> You can build a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes manifests in the YAML format, or *plain bundle*, and add the image to a file-based catalog (FBC). The experimental `olm.bundle.mediatype` property of the `olm.bundle` schema object differentiates a plain bundle from a regular bundle. You must set the bundle media type property to `plain+v0` to specify a plain bundle.

Reviewer: I think it's fine to go into the additional detail of why you would choose to use a plain bundle in a follow up and the main differences but we should at least mention that a "regular bundle" is of format `registry+v1`. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
You can build a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes manifests in the YAML format, or *plain bundle*, and add the image to a file-based catalog (FBC). The experimental `olm.bundle.mediatype` property of the `olm.bundle` schema object differentiates a plain bundle from a regular (`registry+v1`) bundle. You must set the bundle media type property to `plain+v0` to specify a plain bundle.
```
would suffice until the follow up?

> You can build a static collection of arbitrary Kubernetes manifests in the YAML format, or *plain bundle*, and add the image to a file-based catalog (FBC). The experimental `olm.bundle.mediatype` property of the `olm.bundle` schema object differentiates a plain bundle from a regular bundle. You must set the bundle media type property to `plain+v0` to specify a plain bundle.

Author: That sounds good to me, I've addressed it based on @everettraven's suggestion in my latest commit.

For more information, see the [Plain Bundle Specification](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md) in the RukPak repository.

To build a file-based catalog from a plain bundle image, you must complete the following steps:

* Create a plain bundle image
* Create a file-based catalog
* Add the plain bundle image to your file-based catalog
* Build your catalog as an image
* Publish your catalog image

## Building a plain bundle image from an image source

> Currently, the Operator Controller only supports building a plain bundle image from an image source.

Reviewer: Operator controller doesn't build plain bundles. Operator controller currently only supports installing Operators  backed by a plain bundle from a plain bundle image

Reviewer 2: WDYT @everettraven:
```suggestion
Currently, the Operator Controller only supports installing plain bundles created from a plain bundle image.
```

> *Prerequisites*

Reviewer: Nit: If this is a section title make it a markdown header instead of italicized. Markdown headers are linkable which makes it easier to share and link to sections within the document. In this case I would do something like:
```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

This suggestion goes for all subheadings that are italicized.

Reviewer 2: @rashmigottipati Try the following to make a unique header for the prereqs and procedures:
```suggestion
<h3 id="prereqs-building-plain-bundle-from-image">
Prerequisites
</h3>
```

* [`opm` CLI tool](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/releases)
* Docker or Podman
* Push access to an image registry, such as [Quay](https://quay.io)

> *Procedure*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h3 id="proc-building-plain-bundle-from-image">
Procedure
</h3>
```

> 1. Verify that our Kubernetes manifests are in a flat directory at the root of your project similar to the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Verify that your Kubernetes manifests are in a flat directory at the root of your project similar to the following example:
```

    ```sh
    tree manifests
    manifests
    ├── namespace.yaml
    ├── service_account.yaml
    ├── cluster_role.yaml
    ├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
    └── deployment.yaml
    ```

    * If you are using [kustomize](https://kustomize.io) to build your manifests from templates, you must redirect the output into a single file under the `manifests/` directory by running the following command:

        ```sh
        kustomize build templates > manifests/manifests.yaml
        ```

   For more information, see [Building a plain bundle > Prerequisites](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md#prerequisites).

1. Create a Dockerfile at the root of your project:

    ```sh
    touch Dockerfile.plainbundle
    ```

1. Make the following changes to your Dockerfile:

    *Example Dockerfile*

    ```sh
    FROM scratch
    COPY manifests /manifests
    ```

>     **NOTE:** Use the `FROM scratch` directive to make the size of the image smaller.

Reviewer: Nit: Another good spot for a Github markdown note :)

1. Add the following labels to your Dockerfile:

    ```sh
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.mediatype.v1=plain+v0
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.manifests.v1=manifests/

>     LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.package.v1=testOperator
>     LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channels.v1=preview
>     LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channel.default.v1=preview

Reviewer: Nit: Symbolize that these are unique values for all operator projects and need to be supplied by the operator author by doing something like:
```suggestion
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.package.v1={operatorName}
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channels.v1={channels}
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channel.default.v1={defaultChannel}
```

Reviewer 2: Would it be alright to use the following format for the user supplied variables: `<operator_name>`?

That is what is used downstream, so if the code examples upstream use the same format, it would make refactoring easier.

Author: Used the format of `<operator_name>` as it is more consistent across other docs upstream.

    ```

1. Build an OCI-compliant image using your preferred build tool, similar to the following example. You must use an image tag that references a repository where you have push access privileges.

    *Example build command*

    ```sh
    docker build -f Dockerfile.plainbundle -t \
    quay.io/<image_repo>/plainbundle:example .
    ```

1. Push the image to your remote registry:

    ```sh
    docker push quay.io/<image_repo>/plainbundle:example
    ```

*Additional resources*

* [File-based catalog bundle schema](https://github.com/operator-framework/olm-docs/blob/master/content/en/docs/Reference/file-based-catalogs.md)
* [OCI image specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec#oci-image-format-specification)
* [RukPak > Building a plain bundle > Image source](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md#image-source)
* [RukPak > Sources > Images > Private image registries](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/sources/image.md#private-image-registries)

## Creating a file-based catalog

If you do not have a file-based catalog, you must perform the following steps to initialize the catalog.

> *Prerequisites*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h3 id="prereqs-creating-a-fbc">
Prerequisites
</h3>
```

* `opm` CLI tool
* Docker or Podman

> *Procedure*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h3 id="proc-creating-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>
```

1. Create a directory for the catalog by running the following command:

    ```sh
    mkdir <catalog_dir>
    ```

1. Create a Dockerfile that can build a catalog image by running the `opm generate dockerfile` command:

    *Example `<catalog_name>-image.Dockerfile`*

    ```sh
    opm generate dockerfile <catalog_dir>
    ```

>     *TIP:* If do not want to use the default upstream base image, you can specify a different image using the `-i` flag.

Reviewer: Nit: GitHub's markdown has a neat "Note" feature we could use here.

Doing something like:
```
> **Note** Some information
```
results in an output of:

> **Note** Some information

For more fun you can also do warnings this way:
> **Warning** Tread carefully!

Author: Ah nice, that's good to know 👍  Fixed it accordingly.

    * The Dockerfile must be in the same parent directory as the catalog directory that you created in the previous step:
        *Example directory structure*

        ```sh
        .
        ├── <catalog_dir>
        └── <catalog_dir>.Dockerfile
        ```

1. Populate the catalog with the package definition for your Operator by running the `opm init` command:

    ```sh
    opm init <operator_name> \
    --default-channel=preview \
    --description=./README.md \
    --icon=./operator-icon.svg \

>     --output yaml \
>     > <catalog_dir>/index.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --output json \
    > <catalog_dir>/index.json
```
This change would make the resulting package definition consistent with the steps that follow.

    ```

    This command generates an `olm.package` declarative config blob in the specified catalog configuration file.

## Adding a plain bundle to your file-based catalog

Currently, the `opm render` command does not support adding plain bundles to catalogs. You must manually add plain bundles to your file-based catalog, as shown in the example below.

> *Prerequisites*

Reviewer 2: <h3 id="prereqs-adding-a-plain-bundle-to-fbc">
Prerequisites
</h3>

* `opm` CLI tool
* A plain bundle image
* A file-based catalog
* Push access to an image registry, such as [Quay](https://quay.io)
* Docker or Podman

> *Procedure*

Reviewer 2: ```
<h3 id="proc-adding-a-plain-bundle-to-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>
```

1. Verify that your catalog's `index.json` or `index.yaml` file is similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {   
        {
         "schema": "olm.package",
         "name": "<operator_name>",
         "defaultChannel": "preview"
        }    
    }
    ```

1. To create an `olm.bundle` blob, edit your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file, similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.bundle",
        "name": "plainbundle:test",
        "package": "<operator_name>",
        "image": "quay.io/<image_repo>/plainbundle:test",
        "properties": [
            {
                "type": "olm.package",
                "value": {

>                 "packageName": "testOperator",

Reviewer 3: Should be `<operator_name>`

                "version": "0.0.3",

>                 "olm.bundle.mediatype": "plain+v0"

Reviewer: This is a separate property entry. The properties field should look something like:
```
"properties": [
  {
    "type": "olm.package",
    "value": {
      "packageName": "<operator_name>",
      "version": "0.0.3"
    }
  },
  {
    "type": "olm.bundle.mediatype",
    "value": "plain+v0"
  }
]
```

Author: Good catch! Added this over based on the google doc comment but missed verifying it. Fixed it now.

                }
            }
      ]
    }
    ```

1. To create an `olm.channel` blob, edit your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file, similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.channel",
        "name": "preview",
        "package": "<operator_name>",
        "entries": [
            {
                "name": "plainbundle:test"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

> *Verification*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
<h3 id="verify-adding-a-plain-bundle-to-fbc">
Verification
</h3>
```
```

> 
> * Run the following command to validate your catalog:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file and ensure it is similar to the following example:

    *Example `index.json` file*
    ```json
    complete JSON file
    ```

1. Run the following command to validate your catalog:
```

    ```sh
    opm validate <catalog_directory>
    ```

    If there are no errors in your catalog, the command completes without output.

## Building and publishing a file-based catalog

> *Procedure*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<h3 id="proc-building-and-publishing-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>
```

To build a file-based catalog from a plain bundle image, you must complete the following steps:

* Create a plain bundle image
* Create a file-based catalog
* Add the plain bundle image to your file-based catalog
* Build your catalog as an image
* Publish your catalog image

## Building a plain bundle image from an image source

Currently, the Operator Controller only supports installing plain bundles created from a plain bundle image.

<h3 id="prereqs-building-plain-bundle-from-image">
Prerequisites
</h3>

* [`opm` CLI tool](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/releases)
* Docker or Podman
* Push access to a container registry, such as [Quay](https://quay.io)

<h3 id="proc-building-plain-bundle-from-image">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Verify that your Kubernetes manifests are in a flat directory at the root of your project similar to the following example:

    ```sh
    tree manifests
    manifests
    ├── namespace.yaml
    ├── service_account.yaml
    ├── cluster_role.yaml
    ├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
    └── deployment.yaml
    ```

>     * If you are using [kustomize](https://kustomize.io) to build your manifests from templates, you must redirect the output into a single file under the `manifests/` directory by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: Nit: It doesn't _have_ to be a single file. If someone wanted to, they could `kustomize build` and then pipe the output to something that split the objects across multiple files.

Maybe something like this instead:
```suggestion
    * If you are using [kustomize](https://kustomize.io) to build your manifests from templates, you must redirect the output to one or more files under the `manifests/` directory. For example:
```

        ```sh
        kustomize build templates > manifests/manifests.yaml
        ```

   For more information, see [Building a plain bundle > Prerequisites](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md#prerequisites).

1. Create a Dockerfile at the root of your project:

    ```sh
    touch plainbundle.Dockerfile
    ```

1. Make the following changes to your Dockerfile:

    *Example Dockerfile*

    ```sh
        FROM scratch

>         ADD catalog /configs

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        ADD manifests /manifests
```

    ```

>     > **Note:** Use the `FROM scratch` directive to make the size of the image smaller.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    > **Note:** Use the `FROM scratch` directive to make the size of the image smaller. No other files or directories are required in the bundle image.
```

    ```sh
    docker push quay.io/<organization_name>/<repository_name>:<image_tag>
    ```

### Additional resources

* [File-based catalog bundle schema](https://github.com/operator-framework/olm-docs/blob/master/content/en/docs/Reference/file-based-catalogs.md)
* [OCI image specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec#oci-image-format-specification)
* [RukPak > Building a plain bundle > Image source](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md#image-source)
* [RukPak > Sources > Images > Private image registries](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/sources/image.md#private-image-registries)

## Creating a file-based catalog

If you do not have a file-based catalog, you must perform the following steps to initialize the catalog.

<h3 id="prereqs-creating-a-fbc">
Prerequisites
</h3>

* `opm` CLI tool
* Docker or Podman

<h3 id="proc-creating-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Create a directory for the catalog by running the following command:

    ```sh
    mkdir <catalog_dir>
    ```

1. Create a Dockerfile that can build a catalog image by running the `opm generate dockerfile` command:

    ```sh

>     opm generate dockerfile <catalog_dir>

Reviewer 4: This command generates a dockerfile that has a bunch of extraneous stuff in it. I think maybe you mixed up my comments from my last review, but the Dockerfile in these steps should look like this:

```Dockerfile
FROM scratch
ADD <catalog_dir> /configs
```

Reviewer: +1

Author: Ah yes :sweat_smile:  I mixed up your comments from the last review, sorry about that. Fixed it now in my latest commit

        }    
    }
    ```

1. To create an `olm.bundle` blob, edit your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file, similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.bundle",
        "name": "<operator_name>.<version>",
        "package": "<operator_name>",
        "image": "quay.io/<organization_name>/<repository_name>:<image_tag>", 
        "properties": [
            {
                "type": "olm.package",
                "value": {
                "packageName": "<operator_name>",
                "version": "<bundle_version>"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "olm.bundle.mediatype",
                "value": "plain+v0"
            }
      ]
    }
    ```

1. To create an `olm.channel` blob, edit your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file, similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.channel",
        "name": "<default_channel_name>",
        "package": "<operator_name>",
        "entries": [
            {
                "name": "<operator_name>/<bundle_version>"
            }
        ]
    }

>     ```

Reviewer 4: This is a step that I _really_ want newcomers to be able to completely skip, but I'm not sure we're there yet. In the meantime, I think I'd suggest changing `<default_channel_name>` to `<desired_channel_name>` (and we might need to provide an example of a reasonable channel name)

Author: @joelanford Sounds good. I changed it to `<desired_channel_name>` and mentioned about examples of the default channel names which could be `stable`, `fast` or `preview`. 
Let me know if that is what you were thinking of. Also, does the default channel name be followed by semver i.e. `stable:v0.0.1`?

Reviewer 4: Perhaps just link to here: https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/best-practices/channel-naming/

And then if you include an actual example, choose something like `candidate-v0`?

Author: That makes sense. I've linked to the channel naming conventions and also included this example in my [latest commit](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/pull/1127/commits/83cdaeab3ad29bdc44513d2816f890203f031c56)

>                 "name": "<operator_name>/<bundle_version>"

Reviewer: This should be the same as a bundle name:
```suggestion
                "name": "<operator_name>.v<version>"
```

* [OCI image specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec#oci-image-format-specification)
* [RukPak > Building a plain bundle > Image source](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md#image-source)
* [RukPak > Sources > Images > Private image registries](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/sources/image.md#private-image-registries)

## Creating a file-based catalog

If you do not have a file-based catalog, you must perform the following steps to initialize the catalog.

<h3 id="prereqs-creating-a-fbc">
Prerequisites
</h3>

* `opm` CLI tool
* Docker or Podman

<h3 id="proc-creating-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Create a directory for the catalog by running the following command:

    ```sh
    mkdir <catalog_dir>
    ```

1. In the same directory level, create a Dockerfile that can build a catalog image:

     ```sh
    touch Dockerfile
    ```

    * The Dockerfile must be in the same parent directory as the catalog directory that you created in the previous step:
        *Example directory structure*

        ```sh
        .
        ├── <catalog_dir>
        └── <catalog_dir>.Dockerfile
        ```

> 1. Make the below changes to your Dockerfile:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make the following changes to your Dockerfile:
```

  
    *Example Dockerfile*

    ```sh
        FROM scratch
        ADD <catalog_dir> /configs
    ```

    > **Note:** Use the `FROM scratch` directive to make the size of the image smaller.

1. Populate the catalog with the package definition for your Operator by running the `opm init` command:

    ```sh
    opm init <operator_name> \
    --output json \
    > <catalog_dir>/index.json
    ```

    This command generates an `olm.package` declarative config blob in the specified catalog configuration file.

## Adding a plain bundle to your file-based catalog

> Currently, the `opm render` command does not support adding plain bundles to catalogs. You must manually add plain bundles to your file-based catalog, as shown in the example below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the `opm render` command does not support adding plain bundles to catalogs. You must manually add plain bundles to your file-based catalog, as shown in the following example.
```

Verification
</h3>

1. Open your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file and ensure it is similar to the following example:

    *Example `index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.package",
        "name": "example-operator",
    }
    {
        "schema": "olm.bundle",
        "name": "example-operator.v0.0.1",
        "package": "example-operator",
        "image": "quay.io/rashmigottipati/example-operator-bundle:v0.0.1",
        "properties": [
            {
                "type": "olm.package",
                "value": {
                "packageName": "example-operator",
                "version": "v0.0.1"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "olm.bundle.mediatype",
                "value": "plain+v0"
            }
        ]
    }
    {
        "schema": "olm.channel",
        "name": "preview",
        "package": "example-operator",
        "entries": [
            {
                "name": "example-operator.v0.0.1"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

## Building and publishing a file-based catalog

<h3 id="proc-building-and-publishing-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Run the following command to build your catalog as an image:

>     ```sh
>     docker build -f <catalog_directory>.Dockerfile -t \
>    quay.io/<organization_name>/<repository_name>:<image_tag> .
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```sh
    docker build -f <catalog_dir>.Dockerfile -t \
    quay.io/<organization_name>/<repository_name>:<image_tag> .
    ```
```

Procedure
</h3>

1. Verify that your Kubernetes manifests are in a flat directory at the root of your project similar to the following example:

    ```sh
    tree manifests
    manifests
    ├── namespace.yaml
    ├── service_account.yaml
    ├── cluster_role.yaml
    ├── cluster_role_binding.yaml
    └── deployment.yaml
    ```

    * If you are using [kustomize](https://kustomize.io) to build your manifests from templates, you must redirect the output into a single file under the `manifests/` directory by running the following command:

        ```sh
        kustomize build templates > manifests/manifests.yaml
        ```

   For more information, see [Building a plain bundle > Prerequisites](https://github.com/operator-framework/rukpak/blob/main/docs/bundles/plain.md#prerequisites).

1. Create a Dockerfile at the root of your project:

    ```sh
    touch Dockerfile.plainbundle
    ```

1. Make the following changes to your Dockerfile:

    *Example Dockerfile*

    ```sh
    FROM scratch
    COPY manifests /manifests
    ```

    > **Note:** Use the `FROM scratch` directive to make the size of the image smaller.

1. Add the following labels to your Dockerfile:

>     ```sh

Reviewer 4: Does anything in OLMv1 read these image labels? If not, I'd suggest dropping the ones that are not explicitly used in OLMv1 code.

Reviewer: Fair point, my understanding was that these labels were required for the `opm validate` command which may not be necessary considering your comment about removing it from the steps due to the OLMv0 assumptions it makes.

Author: Good point, these image labels aren't being used anywhere in OLMv1 so dropped all of them. I've added them originally assuming these are required for `opm render` but realized we don't have support for plain bundles via `opm` yet.

    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.mediatype.v1=plain+v0
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.manifests.v1=manifests/

>     LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.package.v1=<operatorName>
>     LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channels.v1=<channels>
>     LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channel.default.v1=<defaultChannel>

Reviewer 5: Can these ones match the styling used elsewhere, i.e., lower case with underscores?

```suggestion
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.package.v1=<operator_name>
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channels.v1=<channels>
    LABEL operators.operatorframework.io.bundle.channel.default.v1=<default_channel>
```

Reviewer 5: And if it's important that the values be in some particular form (e.g., camel case), maybe that could be mentioned in a callout or right after the block.

## Creating a file-based catalog

If you do not have a file-based catalog, you must perform the following steps to initialize the catalog.

<h3 id="prereqs-creating-a-fbc">
Prerequisites
</h3>

* `opm` CLI tool
* Docker or Podman

<h3 id="proc-creating-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Create a directory for the catalog by running the following command:

    ```sh
    mkdir <catalog_dir>
    ```

1. Create a Dockerfile that can build a catalog image by running the `opm generate dockerfile` command:

    *Example `<catalog_name>-image.Dockerfile`*

    ```sh
    opm generate dockerfile <catalog_dir>
    ```

    > **Note:** If do not want to use the default upstream base image, you can specify a different image using the `-i` flag.

    * The Dockerfile must be in the same parent directory as the catalog directory that you created in the previous step:
        *Example directory structure*

        ```sh
        .
        ├── <catalog_dir>
        └── <catalog_dir>.Dockerfile
        ```

1. Populate the catalog with the package definition for your Operator by running the `opm init` command:

    ```sh
    opm init <operator_name> \

>     --default-channel=preview \

Reviewer 4: Is this flag required on the `opm init` command? If not, I'd suggest removing it because default channel is not an OLMv1 concept.

If it is required, should we consider an alternate instruction that has the user use HEREDOC to `cat` and `olm.package` directly into a file?

My motivation here is to avoid leaking OLMv0-specific APIs/concepts/behaviors into OLMv1 stuff.

Author: That makes sense. So, the flag itself is not required and I've removed it from the command. However, without the flag too, `opm init` generates an empty default channel in the index `"defaultChannel": ""`. 

I am guessing we should remove this line manually from the index. I _think_ it should be ok for this doc to use the `opm init` and then explicitly mention about removing the empty default channel from the index file. Open to knowing about any other alternatives.

>     --default-channel=preview \

Author: Removed the default channel from the index so comment not applicable anymore

    --description=./README.md \

>     --icon=./operator-icon.svg \

Author: These are not required flags and I removed them from the doc for simplicity and to avoid errors if they don't exist

    --output json \
    > <catalog_dir>/index.json
    ```

    This command generates an `olm.package` declarative config blob in the specified catalog configuration file.

## Adding a plain bundle to your file-based catalog

Currently, the `opm render` command does not support adding plain bundles to catalogs. You must manually add plain bundles to your file-based catalog, as shown in the example below.

<h3 id="prereqs-adding-a-plain-bundle-to-fbc">
Prerequisites
</h3>

* `opm` CLI tool
* A plain bundle image
* A file-based catalog
* Push access to an image registry, such as [Quay](https://quay.io)
* Docker or Podman

<h3 id="proc-adding-a-plain-bundle-to-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Verify that your catalog's `index.json` or `index.yaml` file is similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {   
        {
         "schema": "olm.package",
         "name": "<operator_name>",

>          "defaultChannel": "<default_channel_name>"

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest remove `defaultChannel` since nothing in OLMv1 uses it.

Author: Removed it in the latest commit

        }    
    }
    ```

1. To create an `olm.bundle` blob, edit your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file, similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.bundle",

>         "name": "<bundle_name>",

Reviewer: Name is not the same as an image reference. This would likely follow the OLMv0 bundle naming format of `<operator_name>.<version>`. For example: `foo-operator.v1.0.0`

>         "name": "<bundle_name>",

Author: @everettraven Yup, modified these references across the doc to follow the OLMv0 bundle naming convention

        "package": "<operator_name>",
        "image": "quay.io/<image_repo>/plainbundle:test",
        "properties": [
            {
                "type": "olm.package",
                "value": {
                "packageName": "<operator_name>",
                "version": "0.0.3"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "olm.bundle.mediatype",
                "value": "plain+v0"
            }
      ]
    }
    ```

1. To create an `olm.channel` blob, edit your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file, similar to the following example:

    *Example `<catalog_dir>/index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.channel",

>         "name": "<default_channel_name>",

Reviewer 2: Would be worth explaining, even briefly, that the image tag for a container repository maps to channels?

Or is this something that developers would otherwise understand?

This issue, along with instances where the Operator name, bundle name, and package name are the same trips me up a lot. :)

>         "name": "<default_channel_name>",

Reviewer 2: Thank you for clarifying. I need to read up on the naming conventions and differences. I think I get confused over this because repo, bundle, package, and Operator names are all different, but often share the same name in examples. Or a `stable` image tag in the repository and a `stable` channel.

Sorry for sowing confusion!

        "package": "<operator_name>",
        "entries": [
            {

>                 "name": "<bundle_name>"

Reviewer: Similar to my last comment on the bundle name I would expect it to follow the format of `foo-operator.v1.0.0` as the image reference typically isn't used for the name (although I guess one could).

Author: Modified in the latest commit

            }
        ]
    }
    ```

<h3 id="verify-adding-a-plain-bundle-to-fbc">
Verification
</h3>

1. Open your `index.json` or `index.yaml` file and ensure it is similar to the following example:

    *Example `index.json` file*

    ```json
    {
        "schema": "olm.package",
        "name": "testOperator",

>         "defaultChannel": "preview"

Reviewer 4: Same comment as above.

    }
    {
        "schema": "olm.bundle",

>         "name": "plainbundle:test",

Reviewer 4: In OLMv0, the standard convention for bundle name is: `<packageName>.v<bundleVersion>`. I'd suggest following that same standard, for now at least (this is another area of FBC that we may want to do something different with in the future)

Author: Good point, modified it to adhere to the standard convention

        "package": "testOperator",
        "image": "quay.io/rashmigottipati/plainbundle:test",
        "properties": [
            {
                "type": "olm.package",
                "value": {
                "packageName": "testOperator",
                "version": "0.0.3"
                }
            },
            {
                "type": "olm.bundle.mediatype",
                "value": "plain+v0"
            }
        ]
    }
    {
        "schema": "olm.channel",
        "name": "preview",
        "package": "testOperator",
        "entries": [
            {
                "name": "plainbundle:test"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

> 1. Run the following command to validate your catalog:

Author: We got rid of validation altogether based on https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/pull/1127#discussion_r1268608823 so this comment is not relevant anymore

    ```sh

>     opm validate <catalog_directory>

Reviewer 4: I _think_ I would suggest removing this step. `opm validate` was designed to validate an FBC based on OLMv0's fairly strict expectations. 

Long-term, this requires more thought, but for now, since `opm` does not have any OLMv1-specific logic, I think I would avoid using it for this purpose.

    ```

    If there are no errors in your catalog, the command completes without output.

## Building and publishing a file-based catalog

<h3 id="proc-building-and-publishing-a-fbc">
Procedure
</h3>

1. Run the following command to build your catalog as an image:

    ```sh

>     docker build -f <Dockerfile> -t \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    docker build -f <catalog_directory>.Dockerfile -t \
```

    quay.io/<image_repo>/plain-bundle-catalog:latest
    ```

1. Run the following command to push the catalog image:

    ```sh

>     docker push quay.io/<image_repo>/plain-bundle-catalog:latest

Reviewer 2: I notice that with this last build and push, the image tag switched from `test` to `latest`. I am guess that there is a reason behind this. Should we explain that detail?

>     docker push quay.io/<image_repo>/plain-bundle-catalog:latest

Author: Nope, no reason for using the `latest`, I think that may have been by mistake.
